# S3

An AWS Service for storing objects. Simple Storage Service (3 S's).

S3 is built as a RESTful API for these objects (the objects are basically files). To store an object, we need to create an S3 Bucket. An S3 bucket is just a named entity that holds our objects. Objects are really files with metadata. Each object has a key, which is really just the filename and its path.

All S3 buckets must have a globally unique name, across all regions and aws accounts (barring across aws regions in different partitions).

Since the path is part of the object's `key`, `/` is a valid part of the key.

```
my-bucket
    |
    - hello
        |
        - hello.txt
    - goodbye.txt
```

The corresponding keys for the 2 files would be `my-bucket/hello/hello.txt` and `my-bucket/goodbye.txt`.

## Buckets

Buckets are Individual endpoints in S3 where we can store objects. All bucket names must be globally unique. Each bucket can have different settings, IAM Roles, etc. Events in a bucket can be used to trigger a lambda function (and a few other services as well).

### Sample Workflows

User uploads a profile picture to your application, application uploads the picture to S3, the picture upload triggers a lambda function that resizes the picture to the correct size for the application and uploads the resized picture to S3. The application can then utilize the resized picture from S3.

S3 bucket can be made public and assigned an IP address using AWS Route 53 or similar and then a website can be uploaded to the bucket which can then be accessed as a hosted website.

## REST

S3 buckets are generally accessed as a REST API.

- GET
  - Retrieve a list of all keys (LIST) or retrieve a specific resource with its key
- PUT
  - Add a value at the specified key
- DELETE
  - Remove a resource using its key

## Advantages

### Availability

Content is highly available (even if an Availability Zone were to fail, the content should still be available in the region).

#### The only time S3 has ever gone down

An AWS tech pushed a bad update to S3 and took it down in the entirety of us-east-1 (Northern Virginia), which had a domino effect taking out literally every other service that relies on S3 in the same region.
The AWS Outage Report amusingly also relied on S3, so showed that everything reported as being fine.

### Durability

Content in S3 is backed up through some black box means. AWS does not really specify.
If the content has not been deleted by you, it is in S3.

99.999999999% durability. So there is only a .000000001% chance of data loss.

## S3 Tiers

- Standard
  - The standard tier
  - Good durability
  - Decent price
- Intelligent
  - Has automatic cost savings by shifting data between infrequent or frequent access tiers according to recent usage
- Infrequent
  - Cheap over time cost
  - Includes a per GB retrieval fee
  - Encourages long term storage with infrequent access
- Glacier
  - Very long term data storage
  - Have limitations on the number of times data can be accessed in a year
  - Might be accessed at most once or twice a year